In/final notebook dump (#1)
Arcadia-Science/2025-asr-plms: ASR/ASR_README.md

Reviewer: This README seems like a rough draft that you've populated by copy-pasting another repos README. That's confusing, and someone who enters this directory has the intention of reproducing the ASR results in the paper. So these instructions should make it easy for them to do that.

I would suggest an entire rewrite that's much shorter and useful. Something like this:

--------------------

# Purpose

Explain why this directory exists (i.e. why ASR sequences are generated beforehand as an inputs to the publication notebook). This directory contains all the instructions necessary to reproduce the following files used in the publication:

* files
* directories
* etc
* etc

# Setup

The ASR analysis is managed through a separate conda environment. Deactivate any conda environments, and then:

```bash
conda whatever
conda activate
```

# Reproduce

## ABC

To reproduce ABC, open up notebook, edit cell X, run thing Y. This produces a folder yada yada.

## XYZ

To reproduce XYZ, open up notebook and ...

Author: rewrote this and simplified

# 2025-asr

[![run with conda](https://img.shields.io/badge/run%20with-conda-3EB049?labelColor=000000&logo=anaconda)](https://docs.conda.io/projects/miniconda/en/latest/)

## Purpose

> Method for Ancestral Sequence Reconstruction (ASR) of protein sequences. Alignment with MAFFT, tree building with IQTree, reconstruction with codeml package from PAML, gap inference with DOWMPASS algorithm from PASTML.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This README details how we calculated the ASR sequences in the pub. Alignment is with MAFFT, tree building with IQTree, reconstruction with codeml package from PAML, and gap inference with DOWMPASS algorithm from PASTML
```

URLs to these resources would be helpful. And is DOWMPASS a typo?

Author: corrected typo and added URLs.

## Installation and Setup

This repository uses conda to manage software environments and installations. You can find operating system-specific instructions for installing miniconda [here](https://docs.conda.io/projects/miniconda/en/latest/). After installing conda and [mamba](https://mamba.readthedocs.io/en/latest/), run the following command to create the pipeline run environment.

```{bash}
TODO: Replace <NAME> with the name of your environment
mamba env create -n <NAME> --file envs/dev.yaml

> conda activate <NAME>

Reviewer: We know the environment. It's `../envs/asr_env.yaml`

Author: updated this with the correct environment information
